hey do you have any plans for your next
vacation how about seeing India hold on
now
just because it might feel like it's a
world away both figuratively and
literally that doesn't mean it isn't a
tourist friendly country and more
importantly that trip to India won't
cost you as nearly as much as you think
but first you didn't think I'd talk
about India and not mention the majestic
Taj Mahal did you this famous Indian
landmark has been one of the seven
wonders of the world for quite some time
and seeing this architectural marvel in
person makes it pretty clear why the
construction was commissioned in 1632
and its belief that it took up to 21
years to complete the entire project I
know you've heard of this Monument but
did you know that it's a mausoleum
yeah the Emperor at the time Shah Jahan
had this marble structure built to house
the tomb of his wife Mumtaz Mahal kinda
sad she never got to see this ivory
masterpiece built just for her
since around the topic there's a fun
fact there was an infamous Indian con
man who repeatedly sold different
landmarks in the country including the
Taj Mahal and the Parliament House of
India
he was arrested as many as nine times
but somehow managed to escape from
prison multiple times during his final
escape
he was already 84 years old aside from
the fact that he was breaking the law
you gotta admit that's kind of
impressive anyway some tourists hope to
avoid the crowds at major tourist
attractions like the Taj Mahal and
prefer to take the road less traveled
however a long time might be hard to
come by in India with around 51 births
every minute that's over 73,000 a day
this country has one of the fastest
growing populations in the world roughly
half of India's population is under the
age of 25 also making it one of the
world's youngest populations India alone
holds more people than the entire
Western Hemisphere and with so many
people comes a colorful tapestry of
cultures religions and languages which
brings me to my next point
there are about 780 languages spoken in
India but some sources put it in the
thousands whatever the case only 22 have
been recognized as official languages
good thing English is in the mix too
India has one of the largest numbers of
english-speaking people in the world
second only to the US this means you can
enjoy this super diverse country without
needing a translation app on your phone
each time you want to stop for lunch or
buy a souvenir oh that's right your
smartphone is obviously your closest
traveling companion because let's face
it taking pictures is probably the
easiest way to document your adventures
abroad you'll be happy to know that cell
service and mobile internet is very
cheap in India so there's one more
reason why your trip won't cost you
nearly as much as you think you can
share every experience and discover with
your friends and family back home
without breaking your budget that alone
should put this fascinating country at
the top of your bucket list of places to
visit
okay now for another reason India won't
leave you with moths flying out of your
wallet the food there is so cheap check
it out
if you go to a restaurant and order a
whole meal the chicken or even fish your
bill could be as little as one dollar as
for a cup of tea
it'll cost you about 20 cents I mean can
you imagine filling your belly for under
five bucks sign Mia given that you'll be
saving so much on dining you can
dedicate more of that limited budget to
once-in-a-lifetime experiences something
that India offers in abundance actually
one of these is the food itself in case
you haven't heard of the land of spices
India produces around 70% of the world's
supply that means each authentic local
meal will be an adventure itself
hopefully your stomach will be strong
enough to tackle the rich variety of
flavors and for those of you with
sensitive tastebuds
here's a pro tip take small bites to
test the intensity of the spice before
biting off more than you can handle
[Music]
I also have some good news for traveling
vegetarians that may be hesitant about
the availability of meals suited for
your dietary needs India is also well
known for being a vegetarian friendly
country this is partially thanks to
religious beliefs but it's mostly just a
personal choice there out of respect for
living beings as State of the Nation
survey in 2006 showed that up to 31
percent of the Indian population is
vegetarian and another 9 percent do eat
eggs but no forms of meat so enjoying
local cuisine isn't reserved only for
meat eaters like I said before this is a
diverse country with enough variety to
suit anybody do you think I forgot about
you sports lovers well if you love
sports as much as experiencing new
cultures watching a live cricket match
can be a way to enjoy both briquette is
the most popular sport in the country
much like soccer in Europe or football
in the u.s. so why not get your hands on
a ticket to a local game pack a picnic
basket and spend the day outdoors among
locals to get a taste of true Indian
sport culture
[Music]
the Gandhi River provides another
outdoor activity for nature lovers while
still keeping the focus on experiencing
the culture the Ganges is the longest
river in India and serves as a hub of
activity in this country this includes
dolphin watching as the Ganges Dolphin
is unique to this river unfortunately
their numbers are drastically decreasing
due to increasing pollution
let's hope environmentalists can find a
way to protect these creatures for
future generations to enjoy when
visiting India again
you can't talk about India without
mentioning one of the many massive
ceremonies that take place there one of
the most popular is the khumba muller
gathering which is so big that it's
visible from space
Kumba Milla is the two-month mass
pilgrimage of those of Hindu faith to
bathe in the Ganges the host city of
Allahabad
welcome to staggering 121 million
visitors in 2013 and a whopping 30
million on a single day even if you're
not into crowds you should still try to
buck up and witness this incredible
event I mean at least you'll be able to
say you were present at the world's
largest gathering of people bragging
rights
Kumba Mila is one of many festivals
celebrated in the Indian culture but the
brightest has to be the color festival
Holi it celebrates love the start of
spring and end a winter and the triumph
of good over evil in a very delightful
way people take to the streets to drench
each other in water and colored powder
everyone celebrates together in a
spectacular display of good humor and of
course lots of color
now I'm not usually one for a crowd but
this just seems too good to miss as a
matter of fact color plays a very
important role in Indian culture it's
apparent from the traditional clothes
festivals local cuisine and even their
currency yes with a handful of rupees
you'll quickly see their bright colors
and variations and sizes even if the
notes designers didn't do it on purpose
they seemed to symbolically celebrate
the diversity of this nation Indian
Bills also have Braille markings so that
blind people can read their values how
considerate
another fun fact of the topic of Indian
money it's illegal for foreigners to
take rupees in or out of the country
sorry for the bad news to any of you
point collectors that like to keep
different types of money as a souvenir
from your travels so yeah not just a fun
fact but one you should take note of to
avoid any trouble with local authorities
there is no limit on the amount of
foreign currency you can bring with you
on your visit as long as you declare any
amount over five thousand US dollars in
cash but then again he was carrying that
kind of cash on them anyway now Queen
fans might be aware of this tidbit but
let's see if you are did you know that
the iconic bands frontman Freddie
Mercury was of Indian descent his birth
name was Farooq balsora
and both of his parents were from Bombay
mercury himself of course was born in
Tanzania but still
[Music]
from beautiful music to beautiful people
Andy has the highest number of winners
from the Miss World competition with a
total of six only Venezuela has produced
the same amount of titleholders since
the beauty pageants start in 1951 the
most recent Indian Miss World was
minutiae chiller in 2017 so in addition
to the delicious food and fun festivals
you'll also be in the presence of people
whose beauty is recognized worldwide if
you get tired of the hustle and bustle
you could also take a day and kick back
with some old school board games you
familiar with chutes and ladders
well this popular classic dates back to
ancient Indian times and was known as
moksha Patong it made its way to England
where it was sold as snakes and ladders
the name changed to the one we know
today when it was first introduced to
the US the idea of the game was to teach
the kids the difference between good
virtues and bad vices represented by the
ladders and chutes respectively thanks
for the good childhood memories India so
would you like to go to India let me
know down in the comments along with any
other fascinating facts you know about
this country and don't forget to give
this video a like share it with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life
you